Perhaps the most important
consideration in
function approximation is how
it generalizes between states.
Generalization is something
that humans do naturally.
Once a person learns
how to drive one car,
they don't have to
start from scratch to
learn how to drive
a different car.
They also don't have to
start from scratch on
a different street or
when it is raining.
We'd like our agents to be
able to generalize too.
By the end of this video,
you will be able to
understand what is meant
by generalization
and discrimination,
understand how generalization
can be beneficial,
and explain why we want
both generalization
and discrimination from
our function approximation.
Generalization intuitively
means applying knowledge about
specific situations to draw
conclusions about
a wider variety of situations.
When we talk about
generalization in
the context of policy evaluation,
we mean that updates to
the value estimate of
one state influence
the value of other states.
Imagine a robot tasked
with collecting cans,
observing the world through
a set of distance sensors.
In many locations, it would take
the same amount of time to
drive to the nearest can.
Even though they correspond
to different sensor readings,
these locations have
similar values.
Thus, we might want
the value function
to generalize across
those states.
Generalization can
speed learning by
making better use of
the experience we have.
You may not have to visit
every state as much
to get this values
correct if we can learn
its value from similar states.
On the other hand, discrimination
means the ability to
make the values for
two states different to
distinguish between the values
for these two states.
Going back to the example
of a robot collecting cans,
imagine it is in a state where
a can is three feet away,
but behind a wall.
Contrast this to a state where
a can is three feet away,
but with a clear paths
to reach it.
The robot would want to assign
different values to these states.
So while it is useful
to generalize between
states with similar distance
to the nearest can,
it is also important that we
discriminate between
states based on
other information when it
is likely to impact their value.
We can visualize the space of
possible methods in terms of
a two-dimensional plot of
generalization and
discrimination.
The tabular methods we've
discussed so far lie down here.
They discriminate between
different states perfectly,
but do not generalize
the learn values at all,
each value is represented
independently.
On the other extreme,
we could treat
all states as the same.
Each update generalizes to
all states but cannot
discriminate at all.
At best, we will be able to learn
the average return independent
of the current state,
this is not very useful.
What we would really like is
a learning method that achieves
good generalization and
a good discrimination.
Such a method would generalize
the learn values
to similar states,
allowing it to learn faster,
but it could also
discriminate between states.
Meaning, with more data,
the value function approximation
can accurately
represent the values.
In practice, we are more
likely to get a point here,
where we trade off some level
of discrimination
for generalization.
For example, we might combine
similar states together and
represent their values
with one number.
To build some more intuition,
let's look at the game of
chess as a concrete example.
Take the extreme case where we
treat all states as the same.
This value corresponds
to the probability of
winning regardless of
the state of the game.
With equally matched players,
this number might be 50 percent.
On the opposite extreme,
we have the tabular case,
where we treat every state
as totally different.
This is fine for small problems,
but in a game like chess,
it is impractical to even
enumerate all the
possible states.
There are approximately
10 to the 46 states.
Further, imagine how
long it would take to
individually learn the value
of all these states.
We obviously want something
in-between where we
generalize between states with
similar probabilities of winning.
Identifying these
similarities to get
such groupings is
a difficult question
with no single answer.
How we generalize can have
a major impact on the
performance of our algorithms,
and as a central topic in
machine learning and
reinforcement learning.
That's it for this video.
You should now understand
that tabular representations
provide good discrimination
but no generalization.
Generalization is important
for faster learning,
and having both generalization
and discrimination is ideal.
Though at practice, there's
typically a trade off.
Throughout the next few modules,
we will visit
these concepts as we
examined particular
function approximators.